>> Woodruff: THE DEATH TOLL FROM
A COAL MINE DISASTER IN TURKEY
CONTINUED TO CLIMB TODAY.
AND WHILE HOPES DIMMED FOR THOSE
STILL TRAPPED INSIDE, ANGER OVER
THE TRAGEDY FUELED VIOLENT
PROTESTS NEARBY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, A
PORTION OF MY WIDE-RANGING
CONVERSATION TODAY WITH FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON.
WE TALK HEALTH CARE, POLITICS
AND INCOME INEQUALITY
>> IT'S REALLY PUT A CRAMP IN
THE WHOLE IDEA OF THE AMERICAN
DREAM.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, FROM MUSIC
REHEARSALS, TO GARDENING
CLASSES.
HOW SOME SENIORS ARE CHOOSING TO
STAY ACTIVE BY RETURNING TO
THEIR ALMA MATERS.
>> RETIREMENT COMMUNITIELIKES
OAK HAMMOCK, WITH TIES TO
UNIVERSITIES ARE A GROWING PART
OF THE AMERICAN SCENE.
ESTIMATES ARE THAT THERE ARE
FEWER THAN 100 OF THEM RIGHT
NOW, BUT THOSE NUMBERS ARE
GROWING.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL KEPT
RISING TODAY IN THE COAL MINE
DISASTER IN TURKEY, AND SO DID
THE ANGER.
AT LEAST 274 MINERS WERE
CONFIRMED DEAD,  WITH UP TO 150
OTHERS POSSIBLY TRAPPED, AFTER
YESTERDAY'S EXPLOSION AND FIRE.
DAN RIVERS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS FILED THIS
REPORT FROM THE SCENE.
>> Reporter: GRIEF IS SLOWLY
REPLACING HOPE IN SOMA.
EACH EMERGING STRETCHER BEARS A
MINER AND THE FAITH OF A FAMILY,
FOR MORE THAN 24 HOURS THIS
HARROWING SCENE HAS PLAYED OUT,
WIVES STRAINING TO SEE THE FACE
OF EACH MAN, SOME RECOILING IN
HORROR AT WHAT IT MEANS.
THE BROTHERS AND FRIENDS OF
THOSE MISSING SCREAM IN
FRUSTRATION, THEIR ANGER BARELY
CONTAINED.
THIS PITIFUL SUFFERING HAS GONE
ON FOR MORE THAN 36 HOURS AND
STILL THE NUMBER OF MISSING,
DEAD AND INJURED IS UNCLEAR.
INSIDE THE MINE SHOWS THE THICK
SMOKE, CREATED AFTER A POWER
TRANSFORMER EXPLODED HALTING THE
LIFTS AND STARTING A FIRE FROM
WHICH FEW HAVE ESCAPED.
THE TURKISH PRIME MINISTER RECEP
TAYYIP ERDOGAN VISITED THE MINE
TODAY DECLARING THREE DAYS OF
NATIONAL MOURNING.
BUT IN THE TOWN OF SOMA, A
FURIOUS CROWD OF YOUNG PEOPLE
CHANT FORHE G TOVERNMENT TO
RESIGN.
THE SCALE OF THE DESPAIR AND
GRIEF HERE IN SOMA IS
STAGGERING, THERE ARE HUNDREDS
OF FAMILIES GATHERED HERE AT THE
HOSPITAL DESPERATELWAITY ING FOR
NEWS OF THEIR LOVED ONES, AND
WITH THE ARRIVAL OF EACH
AMBULANCE THERE IS A MOUNTING
SENSE OF DREAD.
WE FIND DO YOU GOR NEARBY,
CRADLING HER 1MON8 TH OLD SON
ISMAIL, HER OTHER BABY HELD BY A
RELATIVE, THEIR DAD UR CHOLAK
NEVER CAME HOME FROM THE MINE,
THE FAMILY HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR
NEWS HERE SINCE YESTERDAY.
SHE SAYS,
"MAY GOD SAVE HIM FOR MY BABIES,
WE ARE BURNING INSIDE, WAITING
FOR 36 HOURS IS NOT EASY NOT
KNOWING IF HE IS DEAD OR ALIVE."
THE MAN'S MOTHER HAS ALSO BEEN
KEEPING VIGIL HERE.
SHE SAYS, "I AM WAITING, TELLING
TO MY SON TO COME HOME, YOUR
KIDS ARE WAITING HERE FOR YOU,
YOU HAVE TO COME BACK FOR THEM."
BUT SO FAR HE LIKE THE OTHERS
REMAINS MISSING, IN A DISASTER
THAT HAS CONSUMED NOT ONLY
INDIVIDUAL FAMILIES, BUT AN
ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
>> Ifill: MINING ACCIDENTS AND
POOR SAFETY CONDITIONS ARE
COMMON IN TURKEY.
AFTER A FATAL 2010 ACCIDENT,
PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN SAID THE
RISK CAME WITH BEING A MINER.
TODAY, HE PROMISED THIS LATEST
TRAGEDY WILL BE INVESTIGATED TO
THE "SMALLEST DETAIL."
FLAMES DESTROYED AT LEAST 30
GNOMES IN KARLZ BAD AND OTHER
FIRES.
THEY SENT BLACK SMOKE PLUME
SHOOTING HIGH IN THE ERA CROSS
SAN DIEGO COUNTY.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT OF
NIGERIA TODAY REJECTED ANY
EXCHANGE OF JAILED MILITANTS FOR
276 SCHOOL GIRLS HELD BY BOKO
HARAM.
THE HEAD OF THE ISLAMIST GROUP
HAD OFFERED THE SWAP ON MONDAY.
MEANWHILE, PEOPLE IN A NORTHERN
VILLAGE SAID VIGILANTES
PREVENTED A NEW ATTACK
YESTERDAY, KILLING SCORES OF
MILITANTS AND DETAINING OTHERS.
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, THE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV OPENED TALKS
TODAY, AIMED AT GRANTING MORE
AUTONOMY TO EASTERN REGIONS.
THE ROUNDTABLE IS PART OF A
EUROPEAN-BACKED PEACE PLAN AND
INVOLVES POLITICAL AND CIVIC
LEADERS.
BUT PRO-RUSSIAN INSURGENTS IN
THE EAST WERE NOT INVITED,
RAISING QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER
THE TALKS WILL DO ANY GOOD.
>> Woodruff: NEGOTIATIONS OVER
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM ENTERED A
CRITICAL PHASE TODAY.
OFFICIALS FROM THE U.S. AND FIVE
OTHER WORLD POWERS MET WITH
IRANIAN OFFICIALS IN VIENNA.
THEY'RE TRYING TO REACH A LONG-
TERM AGREEMENT ON CURBING IRAN'S
NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES BY JULY 20TH.
MEANWHILE, DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL VISITED SAUDI
ARABIA, AND PROMISED THE U.S.
WILL NOT TRADE SAUDI SECURITY
FOR IRANIAN CONCESSIONS.
>> WE WILL CONTINUE TO CONSULT
CLOSELY, CLOSELY WITH YOU AS
THESE NEGOTIATIONS PROGRESS.
AS I AM HERE TODAY, WE WILL
CONTINUE TO HOLD IRAN
ACCOUNTABLE FOR ITS DE-
STABILIZING ACTIVITIES ACROSS
THE REGION AND WE WILL CONTINUE
WORKING CLOSELY WITH ALL OF OUR
FRIENDS AND PARTNERS IN THE GULF
TO REINFORCE THEIR DEFENSES
AGAINST THESE DESTABILIZING
ACTIVITIES.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. AND THE
OTHER POWERS ARE PRESSING IRAN
TO MAKE DRAMATIC REDUCTIONS IN
ITS URANIUM ENRICHMENT.
IRAN IS DEMANDING AN END TO ALL
SANCTIONS AGAINST ITS ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION WARNED TODAY OF
RISING CONCERNS ABOUT THE DEADLY
MIDDLE EAST RESPIRATORY SYNDROME
KNOWN AS MERS.
THE AGENCY SAID THE OUTBREAK OF
THE FLU-LIKE ILLNESS IS NOT YET
A GLOBAL EMERGENCY.
BUT MORE THAN 500 CASES HAVE
BEEN REPORTED WORLDWIDE,
INCLUDING TWO IN THE U.S.
HEALTH WORKERS WHO HAD CONTACT
WITH A MERS PATIENT IN ORLANDO,
FLORIDA HAVE TESTED NEGATIVE.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STET,RE
STOCKS TUMBLED A DAY AFTER
HITTINGLL-T AIME HIGHS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 101 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
16,614.
THE NASDAQ FELL 29 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,100.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 WAS DOWN
NEARLY NINE POINTS, AT 1,888.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
DO THIS YEAR'S PRIMARIES POINT
TO A MORE POLARIZED CONGRESS;
BILL CLINTON TALKS FISCAL
POLICY, FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND
POLITICS;
HOW SOME SENIORS ARE HEADING
BACK TO COLLEGE CAMPUSES FOR
RETIREMENT;
FRUSTRATION TOWARD CHINA SPUR
UNREST IN VIETNAM;
AND A NEW NOVEL EXPLORING LOVE,
WAR AND THE COLLISION OF WORLDS.
>> Woodruff: JUST WHEN YOU
THOUGHT CONGRESS COULDN'T GET
ANY MORE POLARIZED, THINK AGAIN.
ELECTION RESULTS LAST NIGHT IN
NEBRASKA AND WEST VIRGINIA
HIGHLIGHT A GROWING DIVIDE.
IN NEBRASKA, BEN SASSE, A TEA
PARTY-BACKED CANDIDATE, WON THE
REPUBLICAN SENATE PRIMARY AND IS
NOW LIKELY TO BE THEIR NEXT
SENATOR.
WOUHELD REPLACE THE MORE
MODERATE REPUBLICAN SENATOR,
MIKE JOHANNS, WHO IS RETIRING.
MEANWHILE, IN WEST VIRGINIA,
CONGRESSWOMAN SHELLY MOORE
CAPITO WON THE REPUBLICAN SENATE
PRIMARY.
SHE FACES OFF AGAINST DEMOCRAT
NATALIE TENANT, WEST VIRGINIA'S
SECRETARY OF STATE.
CAPITO IS FAVORED IN THAT
CONTEST AND WOULD REPLACE
RETIRING DEMOCRATIC SENATOR JAY
ROCKEFELLER.
HERE TO WALK US THROUGH ALL THIS
IS OUR POLITICAL EDITOR,
DOMENICO MONTANARO.
SO DOMENICO, WE JUST MENTIONED
THERE WHAT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT.
BUT TELL US ABOUT THE REST OF
THIS MISTERM CYCLE WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT.
>> YOU MENTIONED NEBRASKA AND
WEST VIRGINIA, TWO REALLY GOOD
EXAMPLES OF WHAT'S BEEN
HAPPENING.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE IN A LOT OF
OTHER STATES SENATE RACES WHERE
WE KNOW THAT THERE AREGOIN G TO
BE MORE CONSERVATIVE CANDIDATES
FOR THE MOST PART IN PLACES LIKE
SOUTH DAKOTA, MONTANA, IOWA AND
GEORGIA, POSSIBLE BUT IN SOUTH
DAKOTA AND MONTANA, THOSE ARE
TWO STATES WE'RE SEEING
DEMOCRATIC RETIREMENTS.
IOWA AS WELL WHERE THERE'S A
DEMOCRATIC RETIREMENT NOW UP FOR
GRABS.
IN GEORGIA YOU HAD SAXBE WHO WAS
THE ORIGINAL MEMBER GANG OF SIX
CHINA COME UP WITH THE DEBT
REDUCTION PLAN.
HE FLOATED THE IDEA OF POSSIBLY
RAISING TAXES GOING ALONG WITH
BOWLS SIMPSON AND THAT REALLY
DREW THE IRS CONSERVATIVES.
HE RETIRED.
IT DOESN'T MATTER WHO IS GOING
TO REPLACE HIM.
DEMOCRATS COULD WIN THAT RACE,
REMEMBER.
IF A REPUBLICAN WINS, VERY HARD
TO SEE ONE OF THEM COMING OUT IN
FAVOR OF RAISING TAXES.
>> Woodruff:  YOU WERE
MENTIONING THE SAME THING YOU'RE
SEEING IN THE HOUSE.
>> THE HOUSE IS ONE PLACE WHERE
ALL OF US WOULD SAY HOW COULD
THE HOUSE GET ANY MORE DIVIDED.
YOU SEE PEOPLE USING PRETTY
UNCIVIL TERMS IN THE HOUSE MORE
SO THAN EVEN THE SENATE IS CALL
THE UPPER CHAMBER AND THE HOUSE
SOMETIMES DERIDED AS THE LOWER
CHAMBER BECAUSE OF A LOT OF US.
REALLY WHAT YOU'RE SEEING
BECAUSE OF A LOT OF MODERATES
RETIRING A HANDFUL OF STATES,
DEMOCRATS AS WELL, YOU'RE GOING
TO SEE MORE OF THAT MOVEMENT TO
THEIR OWN CORNERS.
>> Woodruff:  YOU KNOW A LOT
OF PEOPLE LOOK AT THIS
POLARIZATION AND THINK IT'S A
RELATIVELY NEW PHENOMENON BUT IN
FACT YOU AND I WERE TALKING
EARLIER, IT GOES BACK
GENERATIONS.
>> YES.
SO THE BOOKINGS INSTITUTION DID
A REALLY GOOD JOB ON THIS
GRAPHICS THEY CREATED OUT OF THE
NATIONAL JOURNAL VOTE RATINGS
THAT THEY DO EVERY YEAR.
THEY RAN ALL THE WAY BACK TO THE
CIVIL WAR.
SO WE'RE GOING TO START IN
1941-42, RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF
WORLD WAR TWO.
THE REASON YOU SEE A LOT OF
MIXING HERE.
THESE DOTS YOU SEE ON THE
SCREEN, THEY REPRESENT
INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
AND HOW THEY VOTE.
OVER ON THE BLUE SIDE IS MORE
LIBERAL, OVER ON THE RIGHT IS
MORE CONSERVATIVE AND THE HIGHER
UP YOU GO IS THE MORE ORTHODOX
THEY VOTED WHETHER CONSERVATIVE
OR LIBERAL AND VOTED TOGETHER AS
A PARTY.
YOU SEE A LOT OF PEOPLE MIXING
AND A LOT GOING FURTHER DOWN THE
LINE.
THAT ONLY MOVES 20 YEARS LATER
TO 1963-64 WHEN THE CIVIL RIGHTS
LEGISLATION PASSED YOU START TO
SEE SOME DIVIDE.
BUT YOU STILL SEE SOME MIXING.
PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT LYNDON
JOHNSON BEING ABLE TO GET CIVIL
RIGHTS THROUGH BECAUSE HE WAS
SOUTHERN DEMOCRAT AND WAS ABLE
TO GET SOME OF THE SOUTHERN
DEMOCRATS OVER.
MOVE AHEAD TO THE 1980'S, AND
YOU SEE PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT
SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM, THEY'RE
ABLE TO DO SO MUCH ON THAT.
AND THAT'S ON LARGE MEASURE
BECAUSE THERE WERE STILL SOME
PEOPLE IN THE MIDDLE.
NOW, 1995, 1996, RIGHT AFTER
WHEN THE REPUBLICAN REVOLUTION
HAPPENED, THE GINGRICH CONTRACT
WITH AMERICA AND YOU START TO
SEE THIS DIVIDE SET IN.
YOU SEE DEMOCRATS THERE STILL
MOVING TOWARD THE MIDDLE.
SOME REPUBLICANS AS WELL MEETING
IN THE MIDDLE.
AND NOW WHEN YOU LOOK AHEAD TO
WHERE WE ARE TODAY 2013 AND LOOK
HOW FAR APART THE TWO PARTIES
ARE.
AND IT'S GOING TO GET EVEN
WORSE.
THAT'S THE ONE THING WE KNOW
THIS TIME AROUND.
>> Woodruff:  IT COULDN'T BE
ANY CLEARER FROM LOOKING AT
THAT.
DOMENICO, WHY, I KNOW THERE ARE
LOTA OF REASONS AT WORK AND YOU
JUST MENTIONED SOME OF THEM.
BUT WHY IS THIS HAPPENING?
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
THE LACK OF SOCIALIZATION, FOR
EXAMPLE.
THERE'S A SHORTER WEEK IT SEEMS
PEOPLE GO HOME BUT THERE'S A
REASON FOR THAT.
PRIMARIES IN WHICH REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS ONLY CAN VOTE IN
THEIR OWN PRIMARIES REALLY
COMPROMISES NOT REWARDED IS
ORTHODOX.
IF YOU GO AWAY FROM THAT LINE, A
LOT OF TIMES YOU'RE GOING TO
DRAW TEA PARTY OPPONENT.
WE SAW IT FOR THE REPUBLICANS
WHO DRAW TEA PARTY OPPONENT.
FOR DEMOCRAT YOU SEE A MORE
LIBERAL.
WE SAW THAT FOR EXAMPLE IN NORTH
CAROLINA BECAUSE OF HER SUPPORT
POTENTIALLY IMMIGRATION REFORM
AND SOME OTHERS AS WELL.
YOU'RE SEEING THIS A LOT.
NOT JUST WITH DEMOCRATS-WITH
REPUBLICANS YOU'RE SEEING THAT
WITH DEMOCRATS AS WELL.
A 4 BLUE DOG DEMOCRATS WERE
MEMBERS OF THE FISCAL
CONSERVATIVE DEMOCRATIC GROUP IN
2010.
NOW JUST 189 OF THEM REMAIN.
MOSTLY THAT'S THE PRODUCT OF THE
2010 MIDTERM BECAUSE THEY'RE
PLAYING ON THE REPUBLICAN TURF
AND THEY WERE TAKEN OUT BY
CONSERVATIVES.
Woo>>druff:  AS YOU "WE'LL
SEE MORE NEXT WEEK.
WE'VE GOT THE GEORGIA PRIMARY
WHICH YOU TOUCHED ON.
>> WE TALKED ABOUT GEORGIA.
GEORGIA, OREGON, OTHER STATES,
KENTUCKY FOR EXAMPLE WHERE MITCH
MCCONNELL IS TRYING TO FIGHT OFF
AN OPPONENT AND LIKELY WILL.
YOU'RE SEEING A LOT OF THESE
LINES WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
FOR THE FALL AND ALSO WITH
POLARIZATION HOW FAR APART THE
TWO SIDES ARE AND THEY REALLY
NEVER HAVE BEEN AS FAR APART AS
THEY ARE TODAY IN THE MODERN
ERA.
>> Woodruff:  I'M GOING TO GO
HOME AND STUDY THESE DOTS.
>> OKAY.
>> Woodruff:  DOMENICO
MONTANARO, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, A CONVERSATION
WITH FORMER PRESIDENT BILL
CLINTON ABOUT ECONOMIC GROWTH,
INEQUALITY, HEALTH CARE AND
FOREIGN POLICY.
I SAT DOWN WITH HIM EARLIER
TODAY IN WASHINGTON AS PART OF A
"FISCAL SUMMIT" RUN BY THE
PETERSON FOUNDATION.
AND THE ECONOMY WAS NATURALLY
THE PLACE TO START.
HERE IS A PORTION OF OUR NEARLY
HOUR-LONG DISCUSSION.
I'M GOING TO LAUNCH RIGHT IN
BECAUSE ONE OF THE INTERESTING
CONVERSATIONS WE'VE BEEN HAVING
LATELY IN WASHINGTON AND AROUND
THE WORLD IS ABOUT INEQUALITY.
IT'S BACK AGAIN.
I WENT BACK AND LISTENED TO A
CONVERSATION WE HAD ON THIS
STAGE THREE YEARS AGO AND WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT IT THEN.
WHY DO YOU THINK NOW, WHY IS
THOMAS SUDDENLY SUCH A BIG DEAL?
>> WELL FIRST OF ALL, IT IS
SEVERE CONSTRAINT IN GROWTH FOR
THE COUNTRY.
AND IT IS EVIDENCE OF A LOSS OF
SOCIAL MOBILITY.
THE MEDIAN MIDDLE INCOME
DEDUCTED FROM INFLATION IS
SLIGHTLY LOWER THAN IT WAS WHEN
I LEFT OFFICE.
AND THE COST OF EDUCATION AND
HEALTHCARE AND OTHER THINGS.
THE AVERAGE WALKING AROUND
PERSON IS HAVING A PRETTY TOUGH
TIME.
AND IT'S ALSO REALLY PUT A CRIMP
IN THE WHOLE IDEA OF THE
AMERICAN DREAM.
IF YOU WORK HARD YOU CAN DO
BETTER THAN YOUR PARENTS DID.
WHAT WE SHOULD BE TRYING TO DO
IS MAKE SURE WE'RE GROWING IN
THESE TIMES TOGETHER AND HAVING
THE BUDGET FOR THE GOVERNMENT
AND THE RIGHT INVESTMENT
STRATEGY IS A PART OF IT.
BUT THE END GOAL HAS GOT TO BE
MORE VIGOROUS JOB GROWTH,
TIGHTER LABOR MARKET WHICH WILL
RAISE INCOMES.
I'M ALSO FOR RAISING THE MINIMUM
WAGE THAT WILL HELP ON THE
BOTTOM AND IT WILL HELP THE BILL
E.GHER FOR THE PEOPLE COVERED B.
>>fill I: R.ESIDENT YOU
LEFT OFFICE 14 YEARS AGO.
WE'RE NOW IN THE SECOND TERM OF
A DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT.
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT WHY WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS NOW.
WHY IS INEQUALITY MORE ON
PEOPLE'S MINDS THAN IT WAS
DURING, EVEN DURING THE
RECESSION.
>> WELL, BECAUSE I THINK DURING
THE RECESSION, IF YOU'RE IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE OCEAN AND YOU
THINK YOU'RE DROWNING, NOBODY
WANTS TO HAVE A DISCUSSION ABOUT
HOW YOU SHOULD HAVE A BETTER
SWIMMING POOL IN YOUR BACKYARD.
I THINK WE WERE JUST SO GLAD
THEY DIDN'T RUN OFF AND THEY
COULD HAVE.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S
HEALTHY WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT
INEQUITY THAT WE GOT TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO FIX IT AND HOW TO FIX
IT IS, PEOPLE LIKE ME, PEOPLE IN
OUR INCOME GROUPS SHOULD PAY OUR
SHARE OF TAXES FOR THE SAME
REASON THEY SAT IN OUR BANKS.
THAT'S WHERE THE MONEY IS.
AND IF YOU HAVE PROLONGED
INEQUITY, YOU'RE GOING TO
CONCENTRATE WEALTH AND IF YOU
HAVE TAX MONEY THAT'S WHERE YOU
GO TO GET TAX MONEY.
>> Ifill:  MR. PRESIDENT YOU
AND I HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
HEALTHCARE, OBAMACARE YOU NAME
IT.
HERE WE ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF
ANOTHER MIDTERM ELECTION WHERE
AS FAR AS I CAN TELL
DEMOCRATTICS ARE RUNNING AS FAR
AS POSSIBLE IN THE OPPOSITE
DIRECTION FROM EMBRACING THE
IMPROVEMENTS YOU SAY THAT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT HAVE EDDIED.
WHAT IS YOUR THANKS TO THEM?
>> I WOULDN'T DO IT BUT THERE
MAY BE SOME PLACES WHERE THE
WELL'S BEEN SO CLOSED AND THEY
HAVE TO DO IT.
WHAT I THINK, WHAT I ADVISE THE
DEMOCRATS TO DO IS TALK ABOUT
THE GOOD THINGS THAT HAPPENED,
ACKNOWLEDGE THE PROBLEMS.
SO LET'S DO WHAT SENSITIVE
PEOPLE WOULD DO.
WE HAD A PROBLEM WE HAD TO DEAL
WITH, ALBERT EINSTEIN COULDN'T
HAVE DONE IT PERFECTLY THE FIRST
TIME.
NOW LET'S SET A LONG TERM REPAIR
PROCESS.
NOBODY COULD HAVE DONE THIS
PERFECTLY.
>> Ifill:  THAT MAKES A BUMPER
STICKER, NOBODY COULD HAVE DONE
THIS PERFECTLY.
>> MAY BE BUT PEOPLE ARE PRETTY
HEART ABOUT IT.
WHEN YOU REMIND PEOPLE YOU GOT
100 MILLION PEOPLE NOW WHO CAN
AFFORD INSURANCE BECAUSE THEY'RE
APPROVED THAT PRE EXISTING
CONDITION CAN'T BE USED AGAINST
IT.
PEOPLE CAN GET BENEFITS IN THEIR
HEALTH INSURANCE POLICY THEY
COULDN'T BEFORE.
YOU GOT THREE AND-A-HALF MILLION
YOUNG PEOPLE UNDER 26 GETTING
HEALTHCARE UNDER THEIR PARENTS
POLICY.
WE'VE GOT THE DOUGHNUT HOLE IN
THE SENIOR CITIZENS DRUG HAS
BEEN CLOSED AND THEY SAY $10
BILLION IN DRUG PURCHASES
ALREADY, SENIORS HAVE.
YOU HAVE I THINK AROUND FOUR
MILLION PEOPLE ALREADY IN THE
MEDICAID EXPANSION AND
EVENTUALLY VARIOUS STATES I
THINK WILL COME ALONG.
IT'S CRAZY NOT TO DO IT.
IT'S A BEGINNING.
AND I THINK THAT PEOPLE CAN
HANDLE THE TRUTH.
TALK ABOUT WHAT'S GOOD ABOUT IT,
TALK ABOUT THE REMAINING
PROBLEM.
COMMIT TO THE PROBLEM.
THAT'S THE BEST POLITICAL
POSITION.
>> Ifill:  CAN I ASK YOU ABOUT
A COUPLE ISSUES ON THE FOREIGN
POLICY FRONT, BECAUSE IF YOU
WERE PRESIDENT NOW IN THE SECOND
HALF OF YOUR SECOND TERM AND YOU
WERE FACING DOWN THE RUSSIAN
BEAR AND THE HUMANITARIAN CRISES
IN SYRIA AND TERRORISM ON THE
RISE IN NIGERIA AND THE MIDDLE
EAST PEACE TALKS HAVE JUST
COLLAPSED AND THEY WERE RAISING
BENGHAZI AGAIN AS A FOREIGN
POLICY ISSUE.
IN WHAT ORDER WOULD YOU TRY TO
TACKLE THEM AND IS ANY OF IT FOR
GROWTH OR HOPE OR POSSIBILITY?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK BENGHAZI
IS A WHOLE DIFFERENT DEAL.
>> Ifill:  I KNOW BUT I JUST
THREW IT IN THERE.
>> WE DID, IN MY OPINION HILLARY
DID WHAT SHE SHOULD HAVE DONE.
SHE IMPANELED A VERY HIGH LEVEL
REVIEW COMMITTEE WITH THE
IMMEDIATELY PAST CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINTS CHIEFS OF STAFF PATRICK
MULLEN WHO IS BACK STAGE.
AND TOM PICKERING OUR COUNTRY'S
MOST DISTINGUISHED DIPLOMATIC
MORE REPUBLICANS THAN DEMOCRATS
IN HIS LIFE.
AND THEY LOOKED INTO WHAT WAS
WRONG, THEY GAVE 20 MEN
RECOMMENDATIONS.
THEY TOOK THEM AND STARTED
IMPLEMENTING THEM.
AND THEY ESTABLISHED THE FACT
THAT WHETHER IT WAS RIGHT OR
WRONG IN THE PAST,
SECRETARIES STATES NEVER WERE
INVOLVED DIRECTLY IN THESE
SECURITY DECISIONS.
AND THEY ALSO OBTAINED WHAT WAS
AN EARLY MISSION OF BENGHAZI
WHEN ALL THE PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND TWO OF THEM WERE HEAVILY
ARMED C.I.A. CONTRACTORS WHO
WERE MILITARY COMBAT AND THEY
WERE PART OF A GROUP OF 20
AUTHORIZED TO PROVIDE SECURITY
AMONG OTHER THINGS WHERE THEY
WERE IN BENGHAZI.
AND IT'S NO -- THE LAST TIME WE
HAD ONE OF THESE MADE PUBLIC WAS
WHEN I DID IT AFTER THE -- IN
1998.
MOST AMERICANS DON'T KNOW HOW
MANY DIPLOMATIC WERE KILLED
DURING PRESIDENT BUSH.
THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT
RECOMMENDATIONS WERE MADE, WHAT
IF ANY ACTION WAS TAKEN TO
IMPLEMENT THOSE.
SO I THINK MY ADVICE TO
EVERYBODY INVOLVED IS TO BE NOT
DEFENSIVE AND REALIZE WHAT THIS
IS AND ANSWER THE QUESTIONS.
>> Ifill:  WHAT IS IT?
>> YOU JUST WANT ME TO GET INTO
A POLITICAL FIGHT.
I'M NOT DOING THAT.
EVERYTHING IS VERY DIFFERENT.
THEY WANT TO REESTABLISH RUSSIAN
RIGHTNESS NOT AS THE COLD WAR
BUT IN 19TH CENTURY IMPACT.
HE BELIEVES RUSSIA WAS BADLY
DAMAGED AND HUMILIATED BY THE
COLLAPSE OF COMMUNISM THE END OF
THE WAR, THE LOSS OF CONTROL
MORE ABROAD.
AND HE SEES ALL THESE THINGS IN
ZERO SUM TERMS.
THE UKRAINIAN REFORMERS HAD A
DIFFERENT IDEA.
MOST OF THE WESTERN UKRAINIANS
SEEM TO AGREE WITH THEM.
WE REALLY WANT TO BE FRIENDS
WITH RUSSIA, WE WANT TO GET
ALONG WITH THEM.
IF YOU DON'T THINK THEY DO, LOOK
AT THE MAP.
I MEAN, WOULD YOU HAVE A HEALTHY
RELATIONSHIP WITH RUSSIA IF YOU
WERE LOCATED WHERE UKRAINE IS?
BUT WE WANT TO BE A BRIDGE
BETWEEN EUROPE AND RUSSIA.
AND IT WAS JUST OUTSIDE OF HIS
IMAGINATION ZONE AND SO WE ARE
WHERE WE ARE.
IT'S NOT THE END OF THE WORLD.
THEY INVADED GEORGIA TOO AND
TOOK PART OF THAT.
I DON'T AGREE WITH THIS AND I
THINK WE HAVE TO BE FIRM AGAINST
IT.
BUT IT'S NOT THE END OF THE
WORLD.
>> Ifill:  YOU KNOW I ASKED
YOU ABOUT A LOT OF THINGS IN ONE
QUESTION BUT I GUESS THE
OVERARCHING QUESTION FOR ALL OF
THEM, ALL OF THESE ISSUES IS
WHAT IS THE U.S. PRESIDENT OR
U.S. GOVERNMENT DO IN THESE
SITUATIONS ANYMORE?
>> WELL FIRST OF ALL, I THINK
WHAT WE SHOULD RECOGNIZE IS
WE'RE LIVING IN A WORLD WITH
MUCH MORE DIFFUSE POWER CENTERS.
IN WHICH WE'RE IN THIS CATCH 22
BECAUSE THERE ARE VERY FEW
PROBLEMS WE CAN SOLVE BY OUR
SERVES.
AND VERY FEW PROBLEMS THAT CAN
BE SOLVED WITHOUT OUR
INVOLVEMENT.
SO WE'RE ALWAYS BEING PRESSED TO
BE MORE AND MORE INVOLVED
KNOWING THAT DEPENDING ON HUGH
ELSE GOES ALONG FOR THE RIDE WE
WILL SUCCEED OR NOT AND KNOWING
THAT THE SPAN OF OUR CONTROL IS
SUBJECT TO BEING UNDERMINED.
>> Ifill:  FINAL QUESTION
DEPENDING ON HOW YOU ANSWER IT
HAS TO DO WITH HEALTH BUT IT'S
ABOUT YOUR WIFE'S HEALTH.
KARL ROVE ASKED YESTERDAY OR
RAISED THE QUESTION OVER THE
WEEKEND I GUESS ABOUT WHETHER
HILLARY CLINTON IS WELL ENOUGH
TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2016,
AND WHETHER IN FACT SHE HAD
SUFFERED A BRAIN INJURY.
DR. ROVE WANTS TO KNOW AS MUCH
AS WE DO, WHETHER THAT'S TRUE
AND WHETHER IT WILL AFFECT HER
DECISION-MAKING.
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL I'VE GOT
TO GIVE HIM CREDIT, YOU KNOW.
THAT EMBODIES THAT OLD SAYING
THAT CONSISTENT IS THE HOBGOBLIN
OF LIBERAL MINDS.
FIRST HE SAID SHE FAKED HER
CONCUSSION AND NOW THEY SAY
SHE'S AUDITIONING FOR A PART OF
THE WALKING DEAD.
[LAUGHTER]
I MEAN YOU KNOW WHATEVER IT
TAKES.
LOOK, SHE WORKS OUT EVERY WEEK,
SHE IS STRONG, SHE'S DOING
GREAT.
AS FAR AS I CAN TELL SHE'S IN
BETTER SHAPE THAN I AM.
SHE CERTAINLY SEEMS TO HAVE MORE
STAMINA NOW.
AND THERE'S NOTHING TO IT.
I DIDN'T EVEN, I WAS SORT OF
DUMB FOUNDED.
THEY WENT TO ALL THIS TROUBLE TO
SAY SHE HAD A TERRIBLE
CONCUSSION THAT REQUIRED SIX
MONTHS OF VERY SERIOUS WORK TO
GET OVER.
SOMETHING SHE NEVER WAS INVOLVED
WITH AND AMERICAN PEOPLE DIDN'T
TRY TO PRETEND IT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
NOW THEY SAY SHE'S REALLY GOT
BRAIN DAMAGE.
IF SHE DOES, THEN I MUST BE IN
REALLY TOUGH SHAPE BECAUSE SHE'S
STILL QUICKER THAN I AM.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Ifill:  DO YOU THINK THIS
IS THEIR WAY OF INSERTING HER
AGE OR HER PHYSICAL CAPABILITIES
INTO THE 2016.
>> I DON'T KNOW, BUT IF IT IS
YOU CAN'T BE TOO UPSET ABOUT IT.
IT'S JUST THE BEGINNING THEY'LL
ATE  IT.
[LAUGHTER]
I BELIEVE YOU KNOW, I'M STILL
WAITING FOR HER TO ADMIT THERE
WAS NOTHING IN WHITEWATER.
>> Ifill:  MR. PRESIDENT,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH MY
ENTIRE CONVERSATION WITH
PRESIDENT CLINTON, WHICH ALSO
TOUCHED ON IMMIGRATION AND
DEMOCRATIC PROSPECTS IN THE
MIDTERM ELECTIONS, ONLINE.
WE'VE POSTED IT ON OUR WEBSITE.
newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, MANY
AMERICANS HAVE STRONG AND
NOSTALGIC TIES TO THEIR COLLEGES
AND UNIVERSITIES.
SOME OF THOSE INSTITUTIONS ARE
REVIVING THOSE RELATIONSHIPS BY
DEVEPINGLO RETIREMENT
COMMUNITIES FOR FORMER STUDENTS,
AND OTHERS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS REPORTS ON ONE
SUCH DEVELOPMENT, AND IT'S
RESIDENTS, AS PART OF OUR TAKING
CARE SERIES.
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU BEEN
STUNG?
>> MANY TIMES.
>> Reporter: OH REALLY?
>> YEAH, AND THE THING ABOUT
GETTING STUNG, YOU REALLY SORT
OF GET IMMUNE TO IT AFTER A
WHILE.
>> Reporter: TEN YEARS AGO, WHEN
HE WAS 69, RAY GOLDWIRE AND HIS
WIFE ANNE MOVED INTO A NEW
RETIREMENT HOME IN GAINSVILLE,
FLORIDA, ORTHN OF ORLANDO, AND A
FEW YEARS LATER HE BEGAN A NEW
HOBBY: BEEKEEPING.
>> IT'S ENTIRELY DIFFERENT THAN
ANYTHING I'VE EVER DONE BEFORE,
JUST LIKE I STARTED SINGING IN
THE CHORUS THIS YEAR BECAUSE I
HAD NEVER SUNG BEFORE.
>> Reporter: THE GOLDWIRES LIVE
WITH ABOUT 400 OTHER RESIDENTS
AT OAK HAMMOCK.
IT'S AFFILIATED WITH, AND CLOSE
TO, THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA --
RAY GOLDWIRE'S ALMA MATER.
IT'S A FAR CRY FROM THEIR FIRST
TRY AT RETIREMENT LIVING.
>> I PLAYED GOLF THREE OR FOUR
TIMES A WEEK, AND WE HAD OUR
CIRCLE OF FRIENDS, BUT THERE
SEEMED TO BE SOMETHING THAT I
WAS MISSING.
>> I GOT HERE AND I THOUGHT, OH
DEAR LORD, WHAT HAVE I DONE?
>> Reporter: WE HAD FRIENDS THAT
TOLD US WE'D MOVE INTO THE
NURSING HOME.
>> AS DID OUR CHILDREN.
>> BUT THEY'VE CHANGED THEIR
MIND NOW.
>> Reporter: THIS IS NOT A
NURSING HOME?
>> NO, THIS IS NOT A NURSING
HOME.
THIS IS INDEPENDENT LIVING.
>> Reporter: RETIREMENT
COMMUNITIES LIKE OAK HAMMOCK
WITH TIES TO UNIVERSITIES ARE A
GROWING PART OF THE AMERICAN
SCENE.
ESTIMATES ARE THERE ARE NOT
QUITE A HUNDRED OF THEM, AND
MORE ON THE WAY, CATERING TO THE
COLLEGE-EDUCATED BABY-BOOMER
GENERATION, WHICH IS NOW
RETIRING.
>> FROM STANFORD TO OBERLIN,
DAVIS AND DUKE TO NOTRE DAME,
CORNELL TO THE UNIVERSITY OF
TEXAS, RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES
TIED TO THE NATION'S TOP NAME
BRAND SCHOOLS ARE GETTING IN ON
THE GAME, AIMING TO TAP THE DEEP
PRIDE AND DEEPER POCKETS OF
THOSE AGING BABY BOOMERS.
>> Reporter: GOLDWIRE SAYS HE
LIKES IT BECAUSE HE CAN STAY
ACTIVE, ATTEND PERFORMANCES,
EVEN GET BUSSED TO THEM, AND
HANG OUT WITH ACADEMICS AND
PhD'S.
AT CLASSES HELD AT THE
RETIREMENT COMMUNITY ITSELF.
JUDITH PLAUT APPRECIATES THAT
SHE CAN EVEN TAKE CLASSES ON
CAMPUS, SHE'S NOW TAKING ONE IN
HORTICULTURE, ALONGSIDE THE
STUDENTS.
>> WE WORKED IN GROUPS.
THEY TREATED ME LIKE AN ORDINARY
MEMBER OF THE CLASS.
>> Reporter: PLAUT, WHO WAS A
MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKERS AND HER
HUSBAND MICHAEL, WHO A
PSYCHOLOGIST, LIKE ABOUT HALF OF
THE RESIDENTS HERE, HAVE CLOSE
TIES TO THE UNIVERSITY.
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY DIDN'T WANT
WHEN THEY CAME TO OAK HAMMOCKS.
>> BECAUSE OF MY PROFESSION I
PUT A L OF OTPEOPLE IN NURSING
HOMES, AND A LOT OF TIMES
THEY'RE PRETTY CRAPPY.
AND I DIDN'T WANT THAT FOR US.
>> Reporter: RIGHT NOW, THE
GOLDWIRES AND PLAUTS ARE ACTIVE
PARTICIPANTS IN THE COMMUNITY,
AND LIKE MOST CURRENT RESIDENTS
LIVE INDEPENDENTLY.
BUT IN CASE THINGS CHANGE IN THE
FUTURE THERE'S AN ASSISTED
LIVING WING, WHERE 100 YEAR OLD
ALVERA DAVISON STILL SERVES AS
PRESIDENT OF THE WING.
SKILLED NURSING IS ALSO
AVAILABLE, AS IS A MEMORY UNIT
FOR THOSE WHO HAVE DEMENTIA.
PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE IS
COMFORTING, BUT ALSO A BIT
DISCONCERTING.
>> WHEN YOU COME HERE YOU HAVE
TO SORT OF GET IN THE MINDSETISI
TO BE FOR THE REST OF YOUR LIFE,
AND THAT'S HARD FOR SOME PEOPLE,
AND IT WAS HARD FOR US IN THE
BEGINNING, BUT WE'VE ADJUSTED.
AND IF YOU COULD CHANGE
ANYTHING, WHICH YOU CAN'T, IS
THAT A LOT OF THESE FRIENDS,
THEY COME IN AS A COUPLE, AND
THE ONE OF THE SPOUSES DIES, OR
GOES INTO THE MEMORY UNIT, AND
THAT'S SORT OF HARD TO TAKE,
PARTICULARLY FOR THE SPOUSE, BUT
FOR US AS FRIENDS, TOO.
>> Reporter: TO LIVE AT OAK
HAMMOCK, RESIDENTS MUST PASS
FINANCIAL L AND HEALTH TESTS.
AN ENTRY FEE FOR A TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENT OR HOME, WHICH THE
RESIDENTS DO NOT OWN-
AVERAGES $350,000 $400,000, MORE
FOR LARGER UNITS.
SHOULD THEY LEAVE OR DIE, THEIR
ESTATES MAY GET SOME BACK
DEPENDING ON HOW MUCH WAS PAID
UP FRONT, WHICH CONTRACT THEY
CHOSE AND HOW LONG THEY LIVED
THERE.
IN ADDITION THERE ARE MONTHLY
FEES THAT CAN RUN AS HIGH AS
$5,000 FOR THE FIRST PERSON IN A
COUPLE.
THAT COVERS 20-25 MEALS,
ACTIVITIES AND MAINTENANCE.
THE PLAUTS HAD TO THINK HARD
BEFORE DECIDING TO MOVE IN,
PAYING UP FRONT WITHOUT OWNING
THEIR HOUSE.
>> IT'S FINE, BECAUSE WHAT WE'RE
BUYING IS A SENSE OF LIFETIME
SECURITY.
THAT'S REALLY WHAT THE TRADEOFF
IS.
IT'S LIKE AN INSURANCE PLAN.
>> Reporter: STAR BRADBURY,
WHOSE TITLE IS "DIRECTOR OF LIFE
FULFILLMENT," RECRUITS NEW
RESIDENTS, ALTHOUGH AT THIS
POINT MOST ONLY CAN GET ONTO A
WAITING LIST.
SHE UNDERSTANDS THE MATH IS
TOUGH.
>> I WISH I COULD WAVE A MAGIC
WAND AND MAKE A LIFESTYLE LIKE
THIS AVAILABLE TO ANYBODY, BUT
THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER IS, YES,
YOU DO HAVE TO PAY AN ENTRY FEE.
WE WANT AND THEY WANT TO KNOW IF
THEY MOVE IN HERE, ARE THEIR
FINANCES GOING TO LAST FOR THEIR
ANTICIPATED LIFESPAN.
SOMETIMES I'VE HAD TO SAY TO
PEOPLE, "THIS ISN'T GOING TO
WORK FOR YOU, I'M REALLY SORRY."
>> Reporter: SO MOST OF THE
RESIDENTS ARE WEALTHIER THAN
AVERAGE, AND ALMOST ALL OF THEM
ARE WHITE.
BERNIE MACHEN IS PRESIDENT OF
THE UNIVERSITY, AND BOTH HIS
PARENTS LIVED AT OAK HAMMOCK
UNTIL THEIR DEATHS
>> IT HAS TO HAVE A BUSINESS
MODEL THAT WILL WORK, AND THAT'S
WHY A LOT OF PEOPLE CANNOT
AFFORD TO LIVE THERE, THERE'S NO
QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
IT IS UNFORTUNATE BUT I THINK
WE'VE LEARNED TO ACCEPT THAT.
>> Reporter: HE SAYS FOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA,
SPONSORING OAK HAMMOCK WAS A
GAMBLE, BUT ONE THAT PAID OFF
FOR THE COMMUNITY.
>> WE'RE IN A SMALL COMMUNITY
THAT DOESN'T HAVE A VERY
DIVERSIFIED ECONOMY, AND THE
SENIOR CITIZEN INDUSTRY IS
SOMETHING WE THOUGHT WOULD BE A
BOON TO OUR COMMUNITY, AND IT
TURNS OUT IT IS, IT'S A BIG
TAXPAYER IN OUR COMMUNITY.
AND WE HAVE A LARGE ALUMNI BASE
AND WE WANTED TO USE THIS AS A
WAY TO RECONNECT TO OUR ALUMNI
BASE.
>> Reporter: BUT IT ISN'T EASY
FOR A UNIVERSITY TO GO INTO THE
SENIOR LIVING BUSINESS.
RIGHT, SAYS ANDREW CARLE, WHO
DIRECTS THE SENIOR HOUSING
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM AT GEORGE
MASON UNIVERSITY.
BUT NOT EVERY SCHOOL DOES.
>> THE PROBLEM A LOT OF
UNIVERSITIES HAVE HAD IS THEY
DON'T KNOW WHO THE GOOD SENIOR
HOUSING PROVIDERS ARE, THE MAJOR
LEAGUERS FROM THE MINOR
LEAGUERS.
OR, UNFORTUNATELY, TOO MANY
UNIVERSITIES IN MY OPINION TRY
TO DO THIS THEMSELVES.
AND THIS ISN'T THEIR AREA OF
EXPERTISE.
>> Reporter: THE UNIVERSITY OF
FLORIDA HAS DONE THAT, BY HIRING
AN EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT FIRM
TO RUN OAK HAMMOCK AND KEEP IT
SOLVENT.
BUT CARLE WARNS IF ANYTHING GOES
WRONG AT A UNIVERSITY-BASED
FACILITY, THE SCHOOL'S
REPUTATION CAN STILL SUFFER,
AND NOT EVERY UNIVERSITY CAN RUN
ONE SUCCESSFULLY.
>> YOU HAVE TO HAVE ENOUGH
STUDENT VOLUME AND ENOUGH ALUMNI
VOLUME TO WARRANT THE DEMAND FOR
THAT.
YOU NEED TO HAVE THE AMENITIES
AVAILABLE.
YOU'RE REALLY LOOKING AT A
SIGNIFICANT LEVEL OF ATHLETICS.
A SIGNIFICANT LEVEL OF VISUAL
AND PERFORMING ARTS.
A SIGNIFICANT ABILITY TO HAVE A
LIFELONG LEARNING INSTITUTE IN
PLACE JUST FOR RETIREES.
>> Reporter: WHILE OAK HAMMOCK
HAS REMAINED VIABLE FOR MOST OF
ITS EXISTENCE, MANY UNIVERSITY-
BASED RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES HAD
A DECLINES IN MEMBERSHIP IN THE
RECESSION OF 2008, A TIME WHEN
CAPITAL S SCWAARCE FOR NEW
BUT SENIOR HOUSING WAS ONE OF
THE FIRST INDUSTRIES TO MAKE A
STRONG COMEBACK.
OCCUPANCY LEVELS ARE UP, AND
PREDICTIONS ARE THAT THERE WILL
BE EXPLOSIVE GROWTH IN PLACES
LIKE THIS IN THE NEXT DECADE OR
TWO.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND A LOT
MORE ON THIS TOPIC ONLINE,
INCLUDING SMART WORKOUT TIPS FOR
SENIORS.
THAT'S ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
>> Woodruff: TENSIONS BETWEEN
CHINA AND VIETNAM REACHED A
FEVER PITCH TODAY, AS THOUSANDS
OF PROTESTERS IN VIETNAM WENT ON
A RAMPAGE OVER CHINESE ACTIONS
IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
>> Woodruff: CLOUDS OF SMOKE
ROSE SKYWARD OVER FOREIGN-OWNED
FACTORIES NEAR HO CHI MINH CITY
TODAY, CASUALTIES IN AN
ESCALATING TERRITORIAL STRUGGLE
WITH CHINA.
RIOTERS TARGETED INDUSTRIAL
SITES THEY BELIEVED WERE
CHINESE-RUN, BUT A PROVINCIAL
OFFICIAL SAID SOME WERE ACTUALLY
TAIWANESE OR SOUTH KOREAN-OWNED.
THE MOBS TORCHED AT LEAST 15
PLANTS.
SCORES MORE WERE LOOTED OR
VANDALIZED.
IN BEIJING, THE CHINESE FOREIGN
MINISTRY DEMANDED ACTION TO CALM
THE SITUATION.
>> ( translated ): CHINA IS
SERIOUSLY CONCERNED WITH THESE
INCIDENTS.
THE FOREIGN MINISTRY HAS CALLED
IN THE VIETNAMESE AMBASSADOR TO
CHINA AND LODGED A SOLEMN DEMAND
FOR VIETNAM TO TAKE IMMEDIATE
AND EFFECTIVE MEASURES TO STOP
AND PUNISH THE ILLEGAL
ACTIVITIES.
>> Reporter: THE PROTESTS,
RARELY ALLOWED IN VIETNAM, BEGAN
PEACEFULLY ENOUGH SEVERAL DAYS
AGO, BUT OFFICIALS CLAIMED TODAY
THEY'D BEEN HIJACKED BY
EXTREMISTS.
THEY SAID 440 PEOPLE WERE
DETAINED.
VIETNAMESE ANGER FLARED AFTER
THE CHINESE BEGAN OPERATING AN
OIL RIG IN DISPUTED WATERS NEAR
THE PARACEL ISLANDS.
THEY'RE CONTROLLED BY CHINA BUT
CLAIMED BY HANOI.
BOTH SIDES HAVE ACCUSED THE
OTHER OF INTENTIONALLY RAMMING
THEIR VESSELS.
CHINESE SHIPS ALSO RED FIWATER
CANNON AT VIETNAMESE CREWS.
TODAY, THE VIETNAMESE COAST
GUARD CLAIMED CHINESE SHIPS HAD
ONCE AGAIN BLOCKED ATTEMPTS TO
REACH THE RIG.
qtr TODAY WE GOT AS CLOSE AS 12
KILOMETERS TO THE OIL RIG, AND
CHINESE FORCES REACTED WITH MANY
SHIPS AND FOLLOWED US CLOSELY.
AT ONE POINT, FIVE CHINESE SHIPS
SURROUNDED ONE OF OURS TO STOP
US FROM GETTING CLOSE TO THE OIL
RIG THAT IS OPERATING ILLEGALLY
IN OUR TERRITORIES.
>> Woodruff: CHINA HAS REJECTED
VIETNAM'S COMPLAINTS AND
DEFENDED ITS OWN ACTIONS.
AGAIN, THE FOREIGN MINISTRY
SPOKESWOMAN.
>> ( translated ): I THINK IT'S
QUITE OBVIOUS WHO IS THE
PROVOKER, WHO IS THE VICTIM, WHO
IS TRYING TO CALM THE SITUATION,
AND WHO IS ESCALATING TENSION.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON, THE
WHITE HOUSE HAS CRITICIZED
CHINA'S ACTIONS IN THE
TERITORRIAL DISPUTE.
BUT SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY
APPEALED TODAY FOR CALM ON BOTH
SIDES.
>> THESE ARE DISPUTES THAT NEED
TO BE RESOLVED THROUGH DIALOGUE,
NOT THROUGH INTIMIDATION.
AND WE ARE NOT A PARTY TO THE
SPECIFIC DISPUTES BUT WE, AGAIN,
URGE DIALOGUE AND THEIR
ESOLRUTION.
>> Woodruff: CHINA IS ALSO
INVOLVED IN TERRITORIAL DISPUTES
WITH THE PHILIPPINES AND JAPAN.
>> Woodruff: SO, WHAT DOES THIS
LATEST FLARE UP MEAN FOR THE TWO
COUNTRIES AND THE REGION?
I'M JOINED BY KENNETH
LIEBERTHAL.
HE WAS SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR ASIA
ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
STAFF IN THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
BROOKINGS INSTITUTION, FOCUSING
ON CHINA.
AND GORDON CHANG, A COLUMNIST
FOR forbes.com AND AUTHOR OF THE
"COMING COLLAPSE OF CHINA."
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH BACK TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
GORDON CHANG, WHAT EXACTLY
HAPPENED IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA
THAT GOT THE VIETNAMESE SO
UPSET?
>> WELL THIS IS PRETTY SIMPLE.
THE CHINESE  TOED A BILLION
DOLLAR OIL RIG OFF THE COAST AND
THEY STARTED TO DRILL.
NOW THIS IS CLEARLY WITHIN
VIETNAM'S EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC
ZONE.
WHAT'S IMPORTANT IS THAT CHINA
ACTUALLY RATIFIED THE U.N.
CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SEA
WHICH MAKE IT PRETTY CLEAR THAT
THIS IS VIETNAMESE WATERS.
WHAT THE CHINESE HAVE DONE IS AN
AGGRESSIVE ACT.
THEY CERTAINLY ROILED VIETNAM.
AND THEY WANT TO STOP THESE
PROTESTS IN VIETNAM IT'S VERY
CLEAR WHAT CAN BE DONE.
THE CHINESE CAN TAKE THE RIG
AWAY.
CHINA HAS THESE TERRITORIAL
CLAIMS OF ALL OF THESE COUNTRIES
IN THE REGION.
THEY ALL HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
CHINA NOT JUST VIETNAM.
>> Woodruff:  WE HEARD THE
CHINESE SPOKES WOMAN IT'S CLEAR
WHO IS THE AGGRESSOR HERE.
SHE MEANT THE VIETNAMESE.
WHO IS TELLING THE TRUTH?
>> I THINK BOTH SIDES THINK
THEY'RE TELLING THE TRUTH.
F
RANKALLY I THINK THE CHINESE
SIDE ACTED ASSERTIVELY HERE NOT
A VERY GOOD SITUATION.
HAVING SAID THAT, THIS IS
DISPUTED WATERS.
IT FALLS WITHIN THE EXCLUSIVE
ECONOMIC ZONE OF ISLANDS THAT
CHINA CLAIMS.
AND SO SIMPLY POINTING FINGERS
AND SAYING IT'S THE OTHER SIDE
FAULT ISN'T GOING TO GET US VERY
FAR.
>> Woodruff:  DON'T THEY KNOW
PUTTING THESE IN THE WATERS
WOULD GET THEM THEM UPSET.
DIDN'T THEY REALIZE THE PEOPLE
OF VIETNAM.
>> I CANNOT IMAGINE THEY THOUGHT
VIETNAM WOULD ACCEPT THIS
WITHOUT A LOT OF PROTEST AND
THEY THOUGHT THE PEOPLE OF
VIETNAM WOULD NOT BE VERY ANGRY
ABOUT THIS.
>> Woodruff:  IN THAT CASE,
GORDON CHANG, WHY WERE THE
CHINESE PREPARED TO GO AHEAD AND
DO THIS IF THEY KNEW THE
VIETNAMESE WERE GOING TO REACT
THIS WAY.
>> I THINK THERE ARE A COUPLE
THING AT WORK HERE.
FIRST OF ALL YOU GOT A CHINESE
POLITICAL SYSTEM IN DISTRESS
THAT'S FALLING BACK ON
NATIONALISM TO BOLSTER LAW GIST
MOTHER SEE AND THE BEST WAY TO
SHOW NATIONALISM IS TO PICK ON A
NEIGHBOR ESPECIALLY VIETNAM.
WHAT THEY ARE TRYING TO DO IS
TEST PRESIDENT OBAMA BECAUSE
THEY PUT THIS RIG INTO
VIETNAMESE WATERS ABOUT A WEEK
AFTER THE PRESIDENT LEFT ON HIS
EIGHT-DAY TRIP TO THE REGION IS
A TRIP OF REASSURANCE.
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS SAYING TO
THE REGION LOOK THE U.S. CAN'T
DO ANYTHING.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO FALL IN
LINE BEHIND US, CHINA.
I THINK THERE'S THOSE TWO THINGS
THAT ARE WORKING.
AND ALSO CHINA HAS THESE
TEETERRAL DISPUTES WITH
EVERYBODY TO ASSERT THEIR
CLAIMS.
>> Woodruff:  THEY'RE TRYING
TO SEND A MESSAGE TO THE UNITED
STATES.
>> I'M NOT SURE.
THIS KIND OF OPERATION WOULD
HAVE TO BE PLANNED WELL BEFORE
THE OBAMA TRIP TO ASIA.
SO I'M NOT, I DON'T BUY IT WAS
IN REACTION TO WHAT HE DID IN
ASIA.
I DO THINK THAT THEY ARE TAKING
A VERY STRONG POSITION TO CREATE
FACTS ON THE GROUND.
AND DEMONSTRATE THAT THEY AREN'T
GOING TO BE EASILY PUSHED OFF OF
THEIR POSITION.
>> Woodruff:  THE CHINESE AND
THE VIETNAMESE WERE ALLIES AT
ONE POINT.
I THINK BACK TO THE 60'S AND THE
70'S AND THE WAR IN VIETNAM.
MAYBE THEY WEREN'T THE CLOSEST
OF ALLIES BUT THEY WERE WORKING
TOGETHER.
WHAT CAUSED THIS RUPTURE.
>> THERE IS A VERY LONG HISTORY
OF TENSION BETWEEN CHINA AND
VIETNAM GOING BACK WELL BEFORE
THE COMMUNISTS IN CHINA AND THE
COMMUNISTS IN VIETNAM.
SO CIRCUMSTANCES PUSHED THEM
TOGETHER IN THE LATE 60'S.
BUT THE NIXON ADMINISTRATION
OPENING TO CHINA WAS NO SMALL
PART AN EFFORT TO GET CHINA TO
DEMONSTRATE TO VIETNAM THAT
CHINA WAS GOING TO PUT PRIORITY
ON RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED
STATES.
VIETNAM COULDN'T COUNT ON THAT.
AND BY THE LATE 70'S CHINA AND
VIETNAM WERE FIGHTING A BORDER
WAR.
SO THERE'S NO LACK OF ANIMOSITY
BETWEEN THESE TWO COUNTRIES OVER
TIME.
>> Woodruff:  GORDON CHANG
WHAT DO YOU BELIEVE THE CHINESE
ULTIMATELY WANT OUT OF THIS.
>> WELL THEY WANT EVERYBODY
ELSE'S WATERS AND YOU KNOW
CLEARLY THEY WANT TERRITORY FROM
OTHER NATIONS INCLUDING INDIA.
AND SO YOU SEE CHINA PUSHING OUT
BEYOND ITS BORDERS IN AN ARC
FROM INDIA TO SOUTH KOREA IN THE
NORTH.
THEY WANT OF COURSE THE MINERAL
IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA BUT THEY
ALSO WANT THE ACCESS TO THE
WESTERN PACIFIC TO GET BEYOND
WHAT THEY CALL THE FIRST ISLAND
CHAIN.
SO THIS IS VERY STRATEGIC FOR
THEM AS WELL.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
HERE BUT ALSO I THINK THEY WANT
TO SHOW TO THEIR OWN PEOPLE THAT
THEY ARE A STRONG NATION AND
THAT THEY CAN GET WHAT THEY
WANT.
AND THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT FROM A
QUESTION OF LEGITIMACY FOR THE
COMMUNIST PARTY.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT DO YOU
BELIEVE THE CHINAS ARE AFTER
HERE.
>> IN THE MARITIME RELATIONS IN
PARTICULAR?
I THINK THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO
HAVE A LOT OF LEVERAGE OVER WHAT
RULES OF THE GAME ARE OFF THE
CHINESE COAST, THE EAST CHINA
SEA AND THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
>> Woodruff:  FOR ECONOMIC
REASONS.
>> ECONOMIC AND SECURITY
REASONS, BOTH.
THIS HAS BEEN AN AREA WHERE THE
UNITED STATES NAVY HAS BEEN ABLE
TO MOVE VIRTUALLY NOT VIOLATING
CHINA'S TERRITORIAL WATERS BUT
BEYOND THE TERRITORIAL LIMIT,
HAS HAD A LOT OF FREEDOM OF
MOVEMENT AND THE CHINESE ARE
TRYING TO PUSH BACK ON THAT.
I AGREE WITH GORDON THAT THEY
WANT THE RESOURCES THAT THEY
THINK WOULD BE RICH MINERAL
RESOURCES IN THE SOUTH CHINA
SEA.
>> Woodruff:  GORDON CHANG
WHAT DO THE VIETNAMESE WANT OUT
OF THIS.
DO THEY WANT TO LIVE IN PEACE
WITH CHINA OR DO THEY HAVE THEIR
OWN TERRITORIAL AMBITIONS?
>> NOBODY WANTS TO START A WAR
WITH CHINA MUCH LESS THE
VIETNAMESE.
NOW OF COURSE THE VIETNAMESE AND
THE CHINESE HAVE BEEN MIXING IT
UP FOR ABOUT A THOUSAND YEARS.
THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT OF
VIETNAM DOESN'T WANT A CONFLICT.
WHAT THEY WANT IS CHINA OUT OF
ITS SCHOOFER ECONOMIC ZONE WHICH
IS THAT BAND OF WATER BETWEEN 12
AND 200 NAUTICAL MILES.
OF COURSE THE CHINESE WANT THE
PARA SOME L WATERS.
THEY WANT A CONSTRUCTIVE
DIALOGUE.
THEY TRIED TO SEND A DELEGATION
AND THE CHINESE WOULDN'T TALK TO
THEM.
THAT SHOWS A PROBLEM IN THE
CHINESE CAPITOL RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff:  FINALLY KENNETH
LIEBERTHAL WHERE IS THIS HEADED
IN THE SHORT STORM.
>> I THINK VIETNAM WILL TRY TO
REIN IN THE DEMONSTRATIONS BUT I
DON'T KNOW WHERE THIS IS HEADED
IN THE MARITIME AREAS.
GORDON IS RIGHT THEY SOUGHT TO
NEGOTIATE WITH THE CHINESE OVER
THIS.
THEY ACTUALLY HAD A PROCESS OF
NEGOTIATION GOING ON IN THE PAST
YEAR AND THEN CHINA MADE THIS
MAJOR MOVE.
I'M NOT SURE WHERE THAT'S GOING
TO LEAD.
BROADLY THE U.S. IS INVOLVED IN
THAT WE HAVE TRIED TO PUSH ALL
PARTIES IN THE REGION TO ACT
ACCORDING TO THE U.N. LAW OF THE
SEA CONVENTION AND WHAT IT
DICTATES IN TERMS OF TERRITORIAL
DISPUTES.
HAVE TRIED TO GET ALL COUNTRIES
TO SIGN A CODE OF CONDUCT.
THE CHINESE SEE US AS
INSTIGATING PROBLEMS FOR THEM
AND WE SEE THEM AS INCREASINGLY
CREATING THE PROBLEMS THAT WE
ALL HAVE TO COPE WITH.
>> Woodruff:  CLEARLY WE WILL
CONTINUE TO WATCH THIS ONE.
KEN LBERTIEHAL, GORDON CHANG, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
FICTIONAL TAKE ON WAR, LOVE AND
IDENTITY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: A YOUNG BLACK MAN
NARRATES HIS STORY OF FRIENDSHIP
AND WAR IN POST-COLONIAL AFRICA.
A YOUNG WHITE WOMAN NARRATES HER
STORY OF MEETING AND
COMING TO LOVE THAT MAN
IN A SMALL MIDWESTERN AMERICAN
TOWN.
THE NEW NOVEL "ALL OUR NAMES"
EXPLORES LOST AND FOUND
IDENTITIES AND A COLLISION OF
WORLDS.
ITS AUTHOR, DINAW MENGESTU,
WAS BORN IN ETHIOPIA BUT HAS
LIVED MOST OF HIS LIFE IN THE
U.S.
HE'S A 2012 MACARTHUR FELLOW
AND NOW PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AT
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
THIS IS HIS THIRD NOVEL.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I'M CURIOUS, DID THIS START
WITH YOU WITH THE AFRICA PART OF
THE STORY OR THE MID WEST
AMERICA STORY OR WAS IT ALWAYS
INTENDED TO BE TOGETHER.
>> IT BEGAN VERY MUCH WITH THE
SEA AND FROM THERE BEGAN TO GO
AND WHAT HAPPENED TO THE MID
WEST.
MY INITIAL IDEA WAS TO SEE IF I
COULD TELL A STORY DEEPLY ROOTED
IN THE PARTICULAR MOMENT OF
AFRICA'S HISTORY I HADN'T HAD A
CHANCE TO EXPLORE YET IN MY
WORK.
>> Brown:  WHY THAT PARTICULAR
MOMENT.
EXPLAIN IT'S IN THE 60'S OR SO
WHEN THE U.S. WAS OFF IN THE
COLONIAL PERIOD BUT FELLA PAR.
>> EXACTLY.
THAT WAS SORT OF AN INTERESTING
IDEA.
HERE WAS A MOMENT OF GREAT OPT
MISYOUAL AND GREAT SORT OF
POTENTIAL.
YOU HAD THE END OF COLONIALISM
AND INDEPENDENT COUNTRIES.
I WANTED TO EXPLORE THE
POSSIBILITY THERE ARE THESE
YOUNG MEN DRAWN TO THESE CITIES
AND MAKE SOMETHING BETTER FOR
THEMSELVES, FOR THEIR COUNTRIES.
AND OF COURSE AT THE SAME TIME
WE KNOW NOW THERE IS A SORT OF
RISE OF CHINESE WORKING IN THE
SHADOWS.
SO THESE GREAT REVOLUTIONARY
LEADERS WENT ON TO BE GREAT
LEADERS.
THERE'S A LOT OF HOPE AND
OPTIMISM I WANTED TO GET OUT
INTO FICTION.
>> Brown:  PART OF THE BROOK
INCORPORATES THE GREAT FICTION
TWO YOUNG MEN ONE IN PARTICULAR
THAT COME TO THE U.S.
BUT THE OTHER PART IS THIS MID
WEST AMERICA AND IT'S O THAT
YOU ACTUALLY GREW UP IN IN
ILLINOIS.
>> PART OF THE STORY'S SET IN
THE IMAGINARY MID WESTERN TOWN
NAME LAUREL BUT IT'S VERY MUCH
ROOTED TO MY OWN EXPERIENCES
HERE IN THE U.S. COMING FROM
ETHIOPIA AND COMING TO THE MID
WEST AND KNOWING A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO NURTURED AND RAISED ME
WANTING TO SEE IF I COULD TELL A
STORY OF IMGREEK NOT JUST FROM
THE POINT OF PEOPLE WHO COME TO
AMERICA BUT FROM THE STORY OF
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE ACTUALLY HERE
AND HAVE TO WELCOME NEW PEOPLE
INTO THEIR TOWNS, HOMES AND
COMMUNITIES.
>> Brown:  THE SETTING OF THIS
STORY IS BEFORE THAT TIME.
THE EARLIER PERIOD WHERE JUST
AFTER SEGREGATION BUT WHERE THE
WHITE WOMAN AND THE BLACK
AFRICAN MAN CANNOT HAVE A
RELATIONSHIP.
>> THAT IS THE SORT OF WAYS YOU
CAN SEE THESE NARRATIVES AS THAT
SO WE OFTEN TIMES SEND TO THINK
OF POST COLONIAL PERIOD IN
AFRICA SORT OF VERY DISTINTED
FROM WHAT HAPPENED IN THE U.S.
WHEN I BEGAN TO PUT THOSE
NARRATIVES SIDE BY SIDE I
THOUGHT AFTER THIS, WE HAD
SOMETHING SIMILAR IN AMERICA.
WE HAD THE CIVIL RIGHTS, WE HAD
THIS SORT OF OPTIMISM AND HOPE
THAT CAME WITH THE 60'S.
AT THE SAME TILE THE REALIZATION
FOR ALL OF THOSE CIVIL RIGHTS
BENEFITS THERE WAS STILL THE
PROBLEM OF RACE THAT CONTINUED
TO PERSIST.
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU LOOK AT A
COUPLE.
>> Brown:  THE NAME, ALL OUR
NAMES, THE TITLE OF THE BOOK,
IT'S ALMOST LITERALLY ABOUT
ONE'S NAME, ONE'S
IDENTIFICATION.
BUT REALLY LOSING ONE'S
IDENTITY.
AND REINVENTING ONE'S SELF.
>> AND THAT'S OFTEN TIMES WE
TEND TO THINK OF OUR IDENTITIES
AND BEING VERY MONOLITHIC.
YOU'RE SORT OF RAISED WITH ONE
PERFECT IDENTITY BUT IN FACT I
THINK WE ALL EXPERIENCE MULTIPLE
IDENTITIES OVER THE COURSE OF
OUR LIVES.
WE LEAVE OUR COUNTRIES MOVE TO
NEAT PLACES.
WE BECOME FATHERS, WE BECOME
HUSBANDS, WE BECOME WIVES, WE
BECOME MOTHERS.
AND WITH EVERY ADAPTATION OF
THAT WE EXPAND OUR POSSIBILITIES
OF WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE CAN
BECOME.
AND SO THE CHARACTERS IN THIS
NOVEL, THEY ARE SHIFTING THEIR
NAMES, THEY'RE TAKING ON NEW
NAMES.
AND SOMETIMES THEY'RE FORCED
INTO THE NAMES THEY ARE BORN
WITH.
>> Brown:  WHAT DOES THAT
PHONE FOR YOU AS THE AUTHOR OF
THESE CREATORS THE CREATOR OF
THESE CHARACTERS.
WERE YOU RETHINKING THEM AS YOU,
WHO ARE THEY REALLY, WHAT IS
THEIR REAL NAME OR DID YOU HAVE
THIS ALL FROM THE BEGINNING.
>> NO, NO.
THEY WERE SORT OF SCATTERED
WRECK AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
NOVEL.
>> Brown:  SCATTERED WRECK.
>> I DEFINITELY THINK SO BECAUSE
I DIDN'T KNOW HOW THEY WERE
GOING TO BE AFFECTED BY ALL THE
DIFFERENT POLITICS AND THINGS
THAT HAPPENED IN THEIR NAMES.
EACH NEW CHANGE WITH EACH NEW
UPHEAVAL THEY ARE FORCED TO
CONSIDER EXACTLY WHO THEY ARE.
THEY ARE FORCED TO REAND THEIR
RELATIONSHIPS AS NOT JUST SORT
OF SOLID  TABLE THINGS BUT VERY
MUCH FRACTURED BY THE POLITICS
THEY LIFE IN.
>> Brown:  ANOTHER THING YOU
DO VERY WELL IN DIFFERENT
STORIES BUT ALSO DIFFERENT
PLACES AND DIFFERENT TIMES.
IS THAT HARD TO DO?
>> IT'S NOT HARD BECAUSE IT'S
SUCH AN ESSENTIAL PART OF WHO I
AM.
I THINK PART OF WHAT I'VE ALWAYS
BEEN CURIOUS ABOUT IS HOW YOU
CAN MERGE THESE DIFFERENT
LANDSCAPES AND THESE DIFFERENT
NARRATIVES.
HAVING BEEN BORN IN ETHIOPIA
HAVING BEEN RAISED IN THE MID
WEST AND ESSENTIALLY FEELING I'M
AFRICAN AND AMERICAN AT THE SAME
TIME.
>> Brown:  THAT'S COMPLETED
THAT'S HOW YOU FEEL.
>> I FEEL THAT'S ONE OF THE
GREAT SORT OF BENEFITS OF BEING
AN AMERICAN, YOU CAN SORT OF
MERGE THESE TWO IDENTITIES AND
FEEL NEITHER ONE HAS TO
COMMITTEE WITH THE OTHER.
YOU CAN CLAIM A CERTAIN
OWNERSHIP OVER BOTH PLACES.
BY WRITING ABOUT BOTH PLACES YOU
CAN BRING BOTH OF THEM INTO
EXISTENCE AT THE SAME TIME.
YOU CAN SAY WELL HERE ARE PEOPLE
LIKE ME OUT THERE WE'RE NOT JUST
AMERICAN, WE'RE NOT JUST AFRICAN
BUT WE ARE SORT OF HYBRID
COMPLEX CHARACTERS MADE OUT OF
BOAST PLACES.
>> Brown:  YOU MENTIONED
EARLIER THIS TRADITION, I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU USED THE WORD
TRADITION.
BUT YOU WERE WRITING ABOUT THAT
EXPERIENCE.
IT SORT OF TRIES TO FRAME IT A
LITTLE BIT, IT'S INEVITABLE
BEEN, RIGHTED.
WHAT IS IT YOU SEE YOURSELF
BRINGING TO THAT TRADITION WHICH
I'M SURE YOU'RE WELL AWARE OF.
>> I THINK WE OFTEN TIMES LIKE
TO THINK OF THE NARRATIVE IN
VERY SINGULAR TERMS.
WE THINK OF THE PERSON WHO COMES
TO AMERICA AND AUTOMATICALLY
WANTS TO SORT OF SUCCEED AND GET
INVOLVED AND HAVE A JOB AND HAVE
A HOUSE.
I'M ALWAYS CURIOUS OF OTHER
PEOPLE WHO COME NOT BECAUSE
THEY'VE CHOSEN TO BUT BECAUSE
THEY HAVE TO.
I THINK YOU APPROACH THE NEW
COUNTRY WITH A RADICALLY
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE AND YOU'VE
BEEN FORCED TO FLEE BECAUSE OF
VIOLENCE BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN
FORCED OUT OF YOUR HOME RATHER
THAN CHOSEN TO LEAVE.
THAT IS A PART OF THE NARRATIVE
BUT IT'S A PART OF THE NARRATIVE
THAT OFTEN TIMES GETS SORT OF
CAST TO THE SIDE IN FAVOR OF A
MORE POPULIST STORY PERHAPS.
>> Brown:  THE NEW NOVEL IS
ALL OUR NAMES.
DINAW MENGESTU, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE DEATH TOLL HIT 274 IN THE
TURKISH COAL MINE DISASTER.
UP TO 150 OTHER MINERS WERE
MISSING AND, POSSIBLY, TRAPPED
UNDERGROUND.
BRUSHFIRES IN CARLSBAD,
CALIFORNIA, DESTROYED AT LEAST
30 HOMES, AND AUTHORITIES
ORDERED EVACUATIONS FOR
11,000 OTHER HOMES AND
BUSINESSES.
AND THE PRESIDENT OF NIGERIA
REJECTED ANY TRADE OF JAILED
MILITANTS FOR 276 SCHOOL GIRLS
HELD BY AN ISLAMIST INSURGENT
GROUP.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW.
THEY DON'T BUILD ROCKETS TO THE
MOON, OR DEVELOP LIFE-SAVING
CURES, BUT SCIENTISTS DEDICATED
TO BASIC RESEARCH ARE SOLVING
THE MYSTERIES OF THE UNIVERSE.
SO WE ASKED SOME OF THEM: WHY DO
R CR
HERE'S SOME OF WHAT THEY SENT
US:
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE IS
ON OUR WEB SITE,
newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, MARGARET WARNER
SITS DOWN WITH GLENN GREENWALD,
THE JOURNALIST AT THE CENTER OF
RELEASING EDWARD SNOWDEN'S
N.S.A. LEAKS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT